Feature/core (#1)
early-sign/EarlySign: AGENTS.md

    - You can edit `pyproject.toml` after adding the packages for formatting purposes.

# Preferences
- We prefer keeping all the test and formatting configurations in `pyproject.toml`.

# Architecture Overview

EarlySign is built around an **event-sourcing** architecture with a typed, append-only **ledger** as the central abstraction. This design enables strict reproducibility and supports multiple statistical procedures operating over shared data.

The conceptual decisions are stored and updated in docs/source/reference/ADR.

## Core Components

- **Ledger** (`earlysign.core`): Central event store using ibis-framework for backend-agnostic data operations. Supports DuckDB, Polars, and other ibis backends
- **Framework** (`earlysign.framework`): Building blocks that standardize the read-write operations to the ledger.
- **Stats Engine** (`earlysign.stats`): Statistical methods organized as `essentials/` (the essential classes and computations) and `applications/` (closer to scenario-based interfaces, uses `earlysign.framework`)

> - **API Layer** (`earlysign.templates`): Business-oriented facade using domain terminology (e.g., `ab_tests`, `guardrail_monitoring`)

Author: ```suggestion
```

## 🔧 Coding Standards

### Import Conventions
- **Absolute imports only**: Always use `from earlysign.package.module import Component`
- **Poetry-based imports**: Leverage poetry's package resolution for consistent imports
- **No relative imports**: Avoid `from .module import Component` patterns

### Module Organization
- **`__init__.py` purpose**: Designed for documentation generation and namespace structure
  - ❌ **DO NOT** use for access restriction or selective imports
  - ✅ **DO** provide namespace-level docstrings with doctests
- **Direct access**: Components should be accessible via absolute paths regardless of `__init__.py`

### Code Quality
- **No development artifacts**: Remove working comments before final delivery
  - ❌ Examples: "this method moved from...", "TODO: refactor later"

>   - ✅ Keep only comments that add value to future maintainers

Author: ```suggestion
  - ✅ Keep only comments that should make into the production version of the code.
```
